# zingchart-vue

Quickly add charts to your Vue application with our ZingChart component

This guide assumes some basic working knowledge of Vue.

## 1. Install

Install the zingchart-vue package via npm

`$ npm install zingchart-vue`

## 2. Include the component in your project

You can either include the zingchart-vue component to your project globally or locally per component

### Globally

In your main app file, add the following lines of code:

```js
import Vue from 'vue';
import zingchartVue from 'zingchart-vue';

Vue.component('zingchart', zingchartVue)
```
This will register the zingchart component globally throughout your application. While the easiest installation option, this will load ZingChart immediately on your user's first load of the application - regardless if a chart is on the first page or not. We reccomend this approach if ZingChart is used heavily across multiple pages.


### Locally per component

In each component where ZingChart is being used, include the following in your component's configuration:

```js
import zingchartVue from 'zingchart-vue';

{
    ...
    components: {
        zingchart: zingchartVue,
        ...
    }
}
```

We reccomend this approach if ZingChart is only included in a few, un-related pages across your application. 

## Usage

The `zingchart-vue` component can be included into template as an element. Below is a simple example of a line chart:

```html
<zingchart :data="chartData"></zingchart>
```

```js
...
new Vue({
    ...
    data() {
        return {
            chartData: {
                type: 'line',
                series: [{
                    values: [4,5,3,3,4,4]
                }]
            }
        }
    }
    ...
})
```

## Parameters

### data [object]

```html
<zingchart :data="myData" :series="mySeries"></zingchart>
```

```js
{
    data() {
        return {
            myData: {
                type: 'line',
                title: {
                    text: 'Hello World',
                },
            },
            mySeries: [
                { values: [1,2,4,5,6] }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### id [string] (optional)
The id for the DOM element for ZingChart to attach to. If no id is specified, the id will be autogenerated in the form of zingchart-auto-#

### output [string] (optional)
The render type for the visualization. Either 'svg' (default) or 'canvas'

### series [array] (optional)
Accepts an array of series objects, and overrides a series if it was supplied into the config object. Varries by chart type used - Refer to the ZingChart documentation for more details.

```html
<zingchart :data="myData" :series="mySeries"></zingchart>
```

```js
{
    data() {
        return {
            myData: {
                type: 'line',
                title: {
                    text: 'Hello World',
                },
            },
            mySeries: [
                { values: [1,2,4,5,6] }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```


### width [string or number] (optional)
The width of the chart. Defaults to 100%

### height [string or number] (optional)
The height of the chart. Defaults to 480px.

### theme [object] (optional)
The theme or 'defaults' object defined by ZingChart. More information available here: https://www.zingchart.com/docs/api/themes

## Events
All zingchart events are readily available on the component to listen to. For example, to listen for the 'complete' event when the chart is finished rendering:

```html
    <zingchart :data="myData" @complete="chartCompleted"/>
```

```js
{
    ...
    methods: {
        chartCompleted(result) {
            console.log(`The chart ${result.id} finished rendering`);
        }
    }
}
```

For a list of all the events that you can listen to, refer to the complete documentation on https://www.zingchart.com/docs/events


### Methods
All zingchart methods are readily available on the component's instance to call. For example, to add a new plot node to the chart:

```html
    <zingchart :data="myData" ref="chart"/>
```

```js
{
    ...
    methods: {
        myCustomAddNode() {
            this.$refs.chart.addnode({
                value: 55,
            });
        }
    }
}
```

For a list of all the methods that you can call and the parameters each method can take, refer to the complete documentation on https://www.zingchart.com/docs/methods

## Hello World and Examples
This repository contains a sample Vue application to give you an easy way to see the component in action
```
$ npm run dev 
```
